From sinfulness every pain and every unhappy destiny are derived;from sinlessness every happy
destiny and every pleasure in life are derived.

Refraining from every sinfulness and constant practice of sinlessness with mind, body, and word:this
is styled the twofold law.

By this law one is saved from being born in the hells and among ghosts and beasts;nay, one gets
plentifulness of joys, glory, and kingly power both among men and gods.

One gets the happiness of the gods, Brahmā, etc., through the four meditations, the four immeasurable
experiences,and the four absorptions in the immaterial spheres; this is in short
the law of the blissful life and its fruits.

On the other hand, the law of salvation consisting in the subtle and deep vision [of reality]was
said by the Victorious ones to be terrific to foolish men who have not ears [prepared
to hear it].

When the foolish man hears the utterance: “ I am not, I never shall be, nothing belongs nor
ever will belong to me”he is stricken with fear, while the wise man gets over every fear.

The Buddha, who utters exclusively what is good to creatures,has stated them to be the offspring
of the error that there is an ego and something belonging to the ego.

From the point of view of the absolute truth it is wrong to say that there is an ego or that
there is something belonging to the ego,because both these assumptions are impossible when
one has fully understood the reality of things.

The groups forming a person are originated from the assumption of a personality, but this personality
is, from the standpoint of the absolute truth, unreal;then, if the seed of something
is unreal, how can its sprout be real?

If one considers the groups as unreal, the assumption of a personality is abandoned;when the
assumption of a personality is abandoned there is no more room for the groups.

Just as through the medium of a mirrors one sees the reflex of one’s own face,though it is in
fact nothing real,

even so one perceives the personality through the medium of the groups,though, in truth, it
is nothing real, but like the reflex of the face.

Just as without the medium of a mirror no reflex of the face can be seen,even so without the
medium of the groups, the personality cannot be perceived.

The noble Ānanda having heard from the Buddha such tenets,obtained himself the insight into
the law and over and over repeated them to the monks.

The assumtion of an ego exists as long as there is the assumption of the five groups;when there
is the assumption of an ego there is again karman, and from this a new birth.

The whirl of life which has no beginning, no middle, and no end, like a whirling firebrand,whirls
round with its three successions (personality, karman, and birth), which are the cause
of the other.

In so far as the ego cannot be demonstrated as being produced either by itself or by another
or both by itself and another,nor as being produced either in the past or in the present
or in the future, the ego vanishes; then karman and lastly new birth.

When a man has recognized [that the idea of] the growth of cause and effect and [that of] their
destruction must be understood in this way,he cannot maintain either that this world is
not or that it is in reality.

But, if a man lacking discrimination hears this law which puts an end to all sorrows,he, on
account of his ignorance, fears a place where there is nothing to be feared, and trembles.

When they say that all this will not exist in the nirvāṇa, this tenet does not make you afraid;but
when we state that here everything is not existent, how is it that this statement fills
you with fear?

