Having paid homage to the All-knower, the only friend of all living beings,who is devoid of
every defect, but adorned with every attribute,

I shall expound for thy spiritual profit, O king, the law which is altogether propitious.Nay,
the law brings forth its fruit (when the seed is planted in him) who is worthy of receiving
the supreme law (as thou art).

Whenever there is perfection in the law, the supreme happiness of salvation will also appear
later on,because those who have reached the perfect life (which is the consequence of the
practice of the law) will gradually attain to salvation.

Indeed, perfect life is considered to be happiness and salvation to be final emancipation from
contingent life.The concise enunciation of the method of realizing that is summarized in
faith and wisdom.

In so far as a man is possessed of faith, he becomes a partaker of the law; in so far as he
is possessed of wisdom he apprehends according to truth.Of the two virtues wisdom is the foremost;
faith, however, comes first.

He who does not transgress the law on account of worldly cravings, hatred, fear, and mental
bewildermentmust be considered as a man possessed of faith; noboby is a fitter recipient than
he for salvation.

One must carefully examine whether actions deriving from one’s own body, words, thoughts, are
good or not and,having settled what is good for others and for oneself, this only one must
always do; then he is indeed a wise man.

Refraining from killing living beings, from theft and from adultery,control over one’s own words
so as to avoid any false or slandering or cruel or futile speech;

Complete abstaining from covetousness, hatred, and wrong views denying the existence of karman;these
ten virtues constitute the tenfold pure conduct. The actions opposed to these constitute
the tenfold impure conduct.

Not drinking intoxicating liquirs, lawful livelihood, hurting nobody, kindness in giving,reverence
towards those deserving reverence, and universal sympathy, this is in short the law.

Through penances alone inflicted upon the body one cannot get at the law;by that method one
is unable either to stop doing harm to others or to benefit them.

Those men who, disregarding the great road of the supreme law, clear on account of generosity,
moral conduct, and patience,wander through the wrong paths of that wilderness which are
bodily penance,

enter indeed a terrific forest, viz. the saṃsāra which has infinite rebirths as its trees,while
beasts of prey, namely moral defilements, lick their limbs.

Those who kill any living being shall have a short life in a new existence; those who do harm
to others shall suffer many offences;by stealing one shall be thwarted in worldly enjoyments;
an adulterer shall get enemies.

The fruit of telling falsehood is repulse, of slandering breaking the friendship,of cruel speech
hearing things unpleasant, of futile expressions unfortunate words.

Covetousness causes the failing of every desire, hatred is said to be the source of fears,wrong
views produce incapacity of seeing aright, drinking of intoxicating liquors is the cause
of mental confusion.

Avarice is the cause of poverty, bad livelihood of being deceived,pride of low birth, envy of
scanty personal strength.

Anger of bad colour; stupidity is derived from not asking wise men (about the law);this fruit
is ripened when one is reborn as a man; but first of all there is the rebirth in bad conditions
of existence.

All those sins are called vices; their consequence has been explained above.All virtuous actions
bring forth an effect quite contrary to that.

Covetousness, hatred, bewilderment, and karman derived from that are sinful;absence of covetousness,
hatred, bewilderment, and karman derived from that are sinless.

