Just the person is not an ultimate but a composite of six constituents,So too each of them in
turn is a composite and not an ultimate.

The aggregates are not the self, they are not in it, it is not in them, without them it is not,It
is not mixed with the aggregates like fire and fuel, therefore how can the self exist?

THe three elements are not earth, they are not in it, it is not in them, without them it is
not;Since this applies to each, they like the self are false.

By themselves earth, water, fire and wind do not inherently exist;When any three are absent,
there cannot be one when one is absent, so too are the three.

If when three are absent, the one does not exist and if when one is absent, the three do not
exist,Then each itself does not exist; how can they produce a composite?

Otherwise if each itself exists, why without fuel is there no fire?Likewise why is there no
water, wind or earth without motility, hardness or cohesion?

If [it is answered that] fire is well known [not to exist without fuel but the other three elements
exist independently], how could your three exist in themselvesWithout the others?
It is impossible for the three not to accord with dependent-arising.

How can those existing by themselves be mutually dependent?How can those which exist not by
themselves be mutually dependent?

If as individuals they do not exist, but where there is one, the other three are there,Then
if unmixed, they are not in one place, and if mixed, they cease to be individuals.

The elements do not themselves exist individually, so how could their own individual characters
do so?What do not themselves individually exist cannot predominate; their characters are
regarded as conventionalities.

This mode of refutation is also to be applied to colours, odours, tastes and objects of touch,Eye,
consciousness and form, ignorance, action and birth,

Agent, object, acting and number, possession, cause, effect and time,Short and long and so forth,
name and name-bearer as well.

Earth, water, fire and wind, tall and short, subtle and coarseVirtue and so forth are said by
the Subduer to cease in the consciousness [of reality].

The spheres of earth, water, fire and wind do not appear to thatUndemonstrable consciousness,
complete lord of the limitless.

Here tall and short, subtle and coarse, virtue and non-virtueAnd here names and forms all cease
to be.

What was not known is known to consciousness as [the reality of] allThat appeared before. Thereby
these phenomena later cease to be in consciousness.

All these phenomena related to beings are seen as fuel for the fire of consciousness,They are
consumed through being burned by the light of true discrimination.

The reality is later ascertained of what was formerly imputed by ignorance;When a thing is not
found, how can there be a non-thing?

Because the phenomena of forms are only names, space too is only a name;Without the elements
how could forms exist? Therefore even ‘name-only’ does not exist.

Feelings, discriminations, factors of composition and consciousnesses are to be consideredLike
the elements and the self, thereby the six constituents are selfless.

Chapter One: High Status and Definite Goodness

