In the condition of salvation (as you believe it to be) there are neither the groups nor the
ego.But if such a kind of salvation is dear to you why do you not like the elimination of
the individual ego and of the groups in this very existence [as preached by our doctrine]?

But nirvāṇa is not even non-existence; how can it be existence?nirvāṇa is called the suppression
of any notion of existence and non-existence.

To say it in a few words, the nihilistic view consists in denying that karman brings forth its
effect.This view is sinful and causes rebirth in the hells. It is called a wrong view.

To say it in a few words, the realistic view consists in affirming that karman brings forth
its effect.It is meritorious and causes rebirth in happy conditions of existence. It is called
the right view.

But when through the right knowledge one has suppressed any notion of existence or non-existence,
one is beyond sin and virtue.Therefore the saints say that this is the salvation from
good as well as from bad conditions of existence.

In so far as one recognizes that any origin has its cause, one gets rid of the nihilistic view,and
in so far as one understands that there is a destruction of things determined by causes
one gets rid of the realistic view.

If a cause is born before the effect or along with it, in both cases, from the standpoint of
the absolute truth it cannot be the cause.In fact, the notion of birth cannot be conceived
either from the conventional or from absolute point of view.

The notion of relation may be expressed in this way: When this thing exists this other thing
also exists, for example, the idea of short in relation to that of long;when this thing is
produced this other thing also is produced, for example, the light when there is a lamp.

If there is not the idea of short there cannot be that of long, as a self-existent thing;if
there is no lamp it is impossible to have any light.

When one understands that the origin of the notions of cause and effect is like this, one cannot
be the follower of the nihilistic view,in so far as he admits that the real nature of
this world consists in the display of subjective differentiation.

Destruction also is derived from the display of subjective differentiation, and therefore one
cannot admit that it is something real in itself.In such a way one does not become a follower
of the realistic doctrine. Therefore, on so far as one has taken standpoint in neither
view, one attains salvation.

A form seen from afar becomes manifest to the eyes when one gets near to it.If a mirage were
really water, how is it that this cannot be seen when one gets near?

This world does not appear to those who are far away [from the truth] as it appears to those
who are near [to it]—that is like a mirage devoid of specific characteristics.

Just as a mirage looks like water but it is neither water nor something real,in the same way
the groups look like the ego, but in fact they are neither the ego nor something real.

If a man [seeing from afar] a mirage, believing that it is water,goes near to it and then thinks
that there there is no water, this man is a fool.

So, when a man takes this world, which is similar to a mirage, to be either existent or non-existentthat
man is under the influence of bewilderment. But if there is bewilderment there
is no salvation.

The nihilist is bound to be reborn in bad conditions of existence, the realist will be reborn
in good conditions of existence.But those who have understood the things as they really
are attain to salvation, in so far as they have taken their standpoint in neither view.

Those who, unwilling to conceive existence and non-existence according to their real nature
(as stated by us),state, on account of their ignorance, [that nirvāṇa is] non-existence why
they do not state that it is existence?

If you object that by the refutation of existence its non-existence is logically implicit,why
then refutation of non-existence would not imply existence?

[For us] there is no thesis to be demonstrated, no rules of conduct, and on account of our taking
shelter in the supreme illumination,not even mind, our doctrine is really the doctrine
of nothingness. How then can we be called nihilists?

