You may ask the common people along with its philosophers either the Sāṃkhyas or the Vaiśeṣikas
or the Jainasor those who maintain the existence of a personality as represented by the
five groups whether they preach a doctrine like ours beyond the dualism of existence and
non-existence.

Therefore you must realize that this present of the law going beyond any dualism or existence
and non-existenceis the ambrosia of the teaching of the Buddhas known as the deep one.

How can this world be something real, since it does not vanish into non-existence nor come to
existencenor even possess the duration of an instant, and is, therefore, beyond the threefold
temporal relation?

From the standpoint of absolute truth, both this world as well as nirvāṇa are equally non-existent,either
in the future or in the past or in the present; how can then any difference
between them be real?

Since there is no duration, there is in truth neither origin nor destruction;how can therefore
[this world] be really born, permanent, destroyed?

If there is always change into new forms is not, then, existence momentary?If, on the other
hand, there is no change how could you explain the modification which we perceive positively
in things.

One thing is momentary because either it disappears partially or totally.But since no difference
appears in the two cases, therefore both assumptions are equally illogical.

If things are mere moments, they are, then, in no way existent; therefore any temporal relation
like that of oldness, etc., would be impossible;if, on the contrary, things are not momentary,
on account of their duration any temporal relation like that of oldness, etc., would
be equally impossible.

If the instant has a final moment, we must assume that it has the other two moments as well,
viz. the initial and the middle;but inasmuch as the instant consists of three moments the
world cannot have the duration of the instant.

Again, beginning, middle, and end must be considered to be like the instant, viz. divided each
one into three moments;the condition of being beginning, middle, and end is not existent
by itself nor by another.

No [atom] is simple being many-sided; and no [atom] is sideless [in so far as its connection
with other atoms would, then, be impossible];on the other hand the idea of plurality is inconceivable
without that of unity nor that of non-existence without that of existence.

Non-existence of existence is only possible through destruction or antithesis;but how can destruction
or antithesis be conceivable if existence is logically impossible?

Therefore attainment of nirvāṇa does not imply in fact any destruction of worldly existence.That
is why even the Buddha, when requested whether this world has an end, remained silent.

Therefore, the wise men realize that the All-knower is really the All-knower,because he did
not preach this deep doctrine to those who are unfit [to hear it and cannot, therefore, rightly
understand it].

Indeed the perfect Buddhas, who have realized the absolute truth, stated that this law, conducive
to salvation, is deep,beyond the attachment to any particular thesis, stating the existence
of nothing which one can depend upon.

Ignorant men, who like to state the existence of something which they can depend upon and did
not yet get rid of contradictory theses like that of existence or non-existence of things,feel
but fear of this law which does not state the existence of anything we can depend upon,
and are then ruined.

And being themselves ruined they want to ruin others, also being afraid of (this teaching) where
there is nothing to be feared.Be careful, O king, unless these wicked ones might ruin
you also.

O King, lest you be ruined I will explain through the scripturesThe mode of the supramundane,
the reality that relies not on dualism.

This profundity which liberates and is beyond both sin and virtueHas not been tasted by those
wyo fear the baseless, the others, the Forders and even by ourselves.

A person is not earth, not water, not fire, not wind, not space,Not consciousness and not all
of them; what person is there other than these?

