Scarce are those who can give wholesome advice, scarcer are those who listen to them,but far
scarcer still are those who immediately practice wholesome counsel.

Having therefore understood that something is wholesome though unpalatable, do it at once;even
so a clever man in order to recover his health drinks a medicine however acrid.

Keep always in your mind that things such as life, good health, and kingship are impermanent;frightened
therefore [by impermanence], you will seek for the law as the only refuge.

Realizing that death is inevitable and that, as soon as one is dead, the consequence of sin
is sorrow,you cannot annihilate sin even through the enjoyment of this life.

If, in a certain moment, you see no danger and in another moment you see a danger,then, if you
trust in one, how is it that you do not fear the other?

By being addicted to drinking one is in this world despised by others, is unable to carry out
his business, loses his wealth and,on account of the bewilderment that proceeds from that,
he cannot accomplish his duty. Give up therefore drinking.

Gambling causes avarice, unpleasantness, hatred, deception, cheating,Wildness, lying, senselessness
and harsh speech, therefore never gamble.

Lust for a woman mostly comes from thinking that her body is clean,but there is nothing clean
in a woman’s body.

The mouth is a vessel filled with foul saliva and filth between the teeth,The nose with fluids,
snot and mucus, the eyes with their own filth and tears.

The body is a vessel filled with excrement, urine, lungs and liver;He whose vision is obscured
and does not see a woman thus, lusts for her body. (Just as some fools desire an ornamented
pot of filth,So the ignorant and obscured and the worldly desire women.1 )

If the world is greatly attached to the nauseous stinking bodyWhish should cause loss of attachment,
how can it be led to freedome from desire?

Just as pigs yearn greatly for a source of excrement, urine and vomit,So some lustful ones desire
a source of excrement, urine and vomit.

This filthy city of a body, with protruding holes for the elementsIs called by stupid beings
an object of pleasure.

Once you have seen for yourself the filth of excrement, urine and so forth,how could you be
attracted to a body so composed?

Why should you lust desirously for this while recognising it as a filthy formproduced by a seed
whose essence is filth, a mixture of blood and semen?

He who lies on the filthy mass covered by skin moistened withThose fluids, merely lies on top
of a woman’s bladder.

If whether beautiful or ugly, whether old or young,All the bodies of women are filthy from what
attributes does your lust arise?

Just as it is not fit do desire filth although it have a good colourAnd shape it its very freshness,
so it is with a woman’s body.

How could the nature of this putrid corpse, a rotten mass covered outside by skin,Not be seen
when it looks so very horrible?

‘The skin is not foul, it is like a cloak.’Over a mass of filth how ould it be clean?

