By food badly digested a man gets his ruin,but by food well digested he enjoys long life, good
health, physical strength, and other pleasures;

even so those who do not properly understand the doctrine will get their ruin;on the contrary,
by its rigth understanding one obtains happiness in this life and the supreme illumination.

Therefore, giving up any criticism against this doctrine and getting rid of the nihilistic view,strive
after the right knowledge in order to arrive at the complete attainement of your
object.

If one does not thoroughly understand this doctrine egotism is originated; from this, karma,
both moral and immoral is derived,and from this a new life which will accordingly take place
in good conditions of existence or in bad ones.

Therefore as long as this doctrine, which annihilates egotism, is not thoroughly understood,so
long apply yourself with great care to the [practice of] the law, which consists in liberality,
moral conduct, and patience.

Therefore, o king, whoever in the beginning, in the middle and in the end accomplishes his actions
according to the law,never sinks either here or in the other world.

From the law one gets renown and happiness and has no cause of fear either during life or at
the point of death;he will share copious happiness in another existence; be therefore always
a partaker of the law.

The law alone is the supreme policy, because the affection of men is captivated by the law.When
the affection of men is captivated, the king is not deceived either here or in the after
life.

That policy which is against the law displeases subjects;and when subjects are displeased, the
king cannot rejoice either in this or in another life.

How is it possible that some men of mischivous intelligence could think a science productive
of evil,intented to deceiving others, harmful, conducive to bad rebirths (viz. politics)
to be a science aiming at the public welfare?

How can a man addicted to deceive others be considered as really clever when,on the contrary,
he deceives only himself for thousands of rebirths?

If you want to displease your enemy, give up every sin and take shelter in virtue;in this way
you will obtain your own benefit and at the same time your enemy will be be pleased.

Liberality, kindness in speaking, benefiting others, beings intented to the spiritual profit
(of others as well as of oneself),through these virtues behave towards men and religion.

Truth alone begets firm confidence [of subjects] in kings;even so untruth engenders extreme
mistrust towards them.

Truth in reality is not that which is devoid of falsehood, nor that which develops in a pure
mind;truth is the absolute good done to others; its contrary is falsehood on account of its
being harmful to others.

A single brilliant act of liberality overshadows the faults of the kings;even so miserliness
ruins all their virtues.

A man who has control over himself acquires deepness of mind; from deepness of mind he obtains
dignity;from dignity lustre is derived; from lustre authority. Practice therefore control
over thyself.

A king who, on account of his wisdom, is resolute in his ideas, who does not depend on others
and is determined,cannot be deceived; be therefore solely devoted to wisdom.

A king who is possessed of the four blessings, viz. truth, liberality, self-control, and wisdom,is
praised by gods and men, as the law itself with its four blessings.

When [a king] sits together with his ministers restrained in their speeches, spotless,purified
by their wisdom and their compassion, wisdom and law will then grow in him for ever.

