As the plantain tree, split down along with all its components, is naught,even so the individual,
when split down along with its constituents.

The Victorious ones said therefore that everything is devoid of self;they have ascertained the
real nature of the constituents [forming an individual] and [shown] that they also are
devoid of any reality.

In this way from the standpoint of the absolute truth [the notion] of a self or of a non-self
cannot be conceived.Therefore the Great Ascetic excluded both views, viz. that of the existence
of a self and that of the non-existence of a self.

The Ascetic stated that whatever is perceived by the senses, viz. is seen or heard and so forth,
is neither true nor false.In fact, if there is a thesis, an antithesis is derived from
it, but both thesis and antithesis do not really exist (as per se existent without their
contrary).

Therefore from the metaphysical standpoint this universe transcends both reality and unreality,and
so, in truth, it cannot admit either of existence or of non-existence.

How could therefore the all-knower affirm that this universe, about which no statement is absolutely
possible,has an end or is without an end, is a duality or a non-duality?

“Many Buddhas have gone, will come, or do appear in this very moment.The notion of a limit as
regards living beings in their innumerable series is said by them to be born from the threefold
temporal relation.”

“There is no cause for the increasing of the world of creatures; their passing away is determined
by the threefold temporal relation.How could then the Buddha, who is the all-knower,
leave this question as regards the commencement or the end of the world unanswered?”

In this consists the very depth of our doctrine, viz. that it remains a secret for the ordinary
people.The teaching that the world is to be compared with a magic play represents the
essence of the doctrine of all Buddhas.

We can perceive the birth or the end of an elephant created by magic power,though in reality,
it has neither birth nor end;

even so we can see a beginning and an end in this world,though, from the standpoint of the metaphysical
truth, it has neither origin nor end.

As an elephant created by magic power comes from nowhere and goes to nowhere,in so far as, being
due to a mere bewilderment, it does not stay anywhere as something existent,

even so, this universe like a magic play comes from nowhere and goes to nowhere;being due to
a mere mental bewilderment, it does not stay anywhere.

What is, therefore, in its essence this universe, which, transcending the threefold temporal
relation,cannot be said to be or not to be, except from the standpoint of the conventional
truth?

Therefore for this very reason, and for no other one, the Buddha left this world undetermined
as regards four points,viz. if it has an end, if it has no end, if it is duality, if it
is a unity.

The uncleanness of the body, though it is something material and perceivable,does not abide
in the mind, though it is continually under our eyes;

how, then, could this perfect doctrine, extremely subtle and deepand devoid of any support,
easily descend into our mind?

This is why the ascetic, after having realized this doctrine, declined, at the first moment,
to preach it;he knew in fact that this very doctrine is very difficult to be understood by
common people on account of its depth.

If this doctrine is not well understood it causes the ruin or the unintelligent man,since he
sinks into the impurity of nihilism.

Some other fools who think themselves to be wise do not understand it properly,and therefore
fall head down into the hell of Avīci, being ruined by their criticism against the perfect
doctrine.

