A pot though beautiful outside is reviled when filled with filth.Why is the body, when so filled
and foul by nature, not reviled?

If against filth you revile, why not against this bodyWhich befouls clean scents, garlands,
food and drink?

Just as one’s own or others’ filthiness is reviled,Why not revile against one’s own and others’
filthy bodies?

Since your own body is as filthy as a woman’s,Should not you abandon desire for self and other?

If you yourself wash this body dripping from the nine woundsAnd still do not think it filthy,
what use have you for profound instruction?

Whoever composes poetry with metaphors which elevate this body—O how shameless! O how stupid!
How embarrasing before the wise!

Since these sentient beings are obscured by the darkness of ignorance,They quarrel mostly over
what they want like dogs for the sake of some filth.

There is pleasure when a sore is scratched, but to be without sores is more pleasurable still;There
are pleasures in worldly desires, but to be without desires is more pleasurable still.

If you thus analyse, even though you do not become free from desire,Because your desire has
lessened you will no longer lust for women.

To hunt game is an endless cause of a short life,Suffering and hell, therefore always keep from
killing.

Bad like a snake with poisonous fangs, its body stained with filth,Is he who frightens embodied
beings when he encounters them.

Just as farmers are gladdened when a great rain-cloud gathers,So one who gladdens embodies beings
when he encounters them is good.

Thus always observe the practices and not those counter to them.If you and the world wish to
gain the highest enlightenment,

Its roots are the altruistic aspiration to enlightenment firm like Meru, the king of mountains,The
compassion which reaches to all quarters, the wisdom which relies not on duality.

O great King, listen to how you body will be adornedWith the two and thirty signs of a great
being.

Through the proper honouring of reliquaries, honourable beings, superiors and the elderlyYou
will become a Universal Monarch, your glorious hands and feet marked with [a design of] wheels.

O King, always maintain firmly what you have vowed about practices,You will then become a Bodhisattva
with feet that are very level.

Through gifts and pleasant speech, purposeful and concordent behaviourYou will have hands with
glorious fingers joined by webs [of light].

Through abundant giving of the best food and drink [your glorious hands and feet will be soft;
your hands and feed and shoulder blades[(This line is added in the Tibetan, see Hahn p.67
n.79cd.)]]And the nape of your neck will broaden, so your body will be big and those seven
areas broad.

Through never doing harm and freeing the condemned beautiful will be your body, straight and
large,Very tall with long fingers and broad backs of the heels.

