Lovingly give to beggars various and glitteringClothes, ornaments, perfumes, garlands and enjoyments.

If you provide [facilities] for those most deprived who lackThe means [to study] the doctrine,
there is no greater gift than that.

Even give poison to those whom it will help,But do not give the best food to those whom it will
not help.

Justt as some say that it will help a cut finger to hold a snake,So it is said that the Subduer
brings discomfort to help others.

You should respect most highly the excellent doctrine and its teachers,You should listen reverently
to it and then give it to others.

Take no pleasure in worldly talk, but take delight in what passes beyond the world,Cause good
qualities to generate in others in the same way that you wish them for yourself.

Please be not satisfied with the doctrines you have heard, but retain the meanings and discriminate.Please
always make great effort to offer teachers presents.

Recite not from the wordly Nihilists, stop debating in the interests of pride,Praise not you
own good qualities, but stress those even of your foes.

Do not say what hurts, with evil intent talkNot of others, analyse your own mistakes yourself.

You should free yourself completely from the faults the wise decry in others,And through your
power cause others to do the same.

Consider the harm done to you by others as created by your former deeds, be not angry,Act in
such a way that you do not cause more suffering and your own faults will disappear.

Provide help to others without hope of reward,Bear suffering alone and share your pleasures
with beggars.

Do not be inflated even when you have aqcuired the prosperity of gods.Do not even be depressed
by the disadvantageous poverty of hungry ghosts.

For your own sake always speak the truth, even should it cause your deathOr ruin your kingdom,
do not speak in any other way.

Always observe the discipline of actions as it has been explained,Then, O glorious one, you
will become the best of models upon earth.

You should always well analyse everything before you act,Through seeing things just as they
are you will not rely on others.

Through these practices your kingdom will be happy, a broad canopy of fameWill rise in all directions,
and your ministers will revere you completely.

The causes of death are many, those of staying alive are few,These too can become the causes
of death, therefore always perform the practices.

If you carry out the practices, the mental happiness which arisesIn the world and yourself is
most beneficial.

Through the practices you will sleep and awaken in happiness;Faultless in your inner nature
happy will even be your dreams.

