Please act with good wisdom and provide hostels, amusement centres, dikes,Ponds, rest-houses,
water-vessels, beds, food, grass and wood.

Please establish rest-houses in all temples, towns and citiesAnd provide water-vessels on all
arid roadways.

Always care compassionately for the sick, the unprotected, those strickenWith suffering, the
lowly and the poor and take special care to nourish them.

Until you have given to monks and beggars seasonally appropriate foodAnd drink, produce, grain
and fruit, you should not partake of them.

At the sites of the water-vessels place shoes, umbrellas, water-filters,Tweezers for removing
thorns, needles, thread and fans.

Within the vessels place the three medicinal fruits, the three fever medicines, butter,Honey,
salve for the eyes and antidotes to poison, written spells and prescriptions.

At the sites of the vessels place salves for the body, feet and head,Wool, small chairs, gruel,
jars, pots, axes and so forth.

Please have small containers in the shade filled with sesame,Rice, grains, foods, molasses,
and suitable water.

At the openings of ant-hills pelase have trustworthy menalways put food and water, sugar and
piles of grain.

Before and after taking food offer appropriate fareTo hungry ghosts, dogs, ants, birds and so
forth.

Provide extensive care for the persecuted, the victims [of disasters],The stricken and diseased,
and for the worldly beings in conquered areas.

Provide stricken farmers with seeds and sustenance,Eliminate high taxes by reducing their rate.

Protect [the poor] from the pain of wanting [your wealth], set ut no [new] tolls and reduce
those [that are heavy],Free them from the suffering [that follows when the tax collector]
is waiting at the door.

Eliminate thieves and robbers in your own and others’ countries.Please set prices fairly and
keep profits level [when things are scarce].

You should know full well [the counsel] that your ministers have offered,And should always follow
it if it benefits the world.

Just as you love to think what could be done to help yourself,So should you love to think what
could be done to help others.

If only for a moment make yourself available for the use of othersJust as earth, water, fire,
wind, medicine and forests [are available to all].

Even during hte time needed to take seven steps merit measureless as the skyIs produced in Bodhisattvas
who are well disposed to giving wealth away.

If you give to the needy girls of beauty well adorned,You will thereby master the spells to
retain the excellent doctrine.

Formerly the Subduer provided along with every need and so forthEighty thousand girls with all
adornments.

