The limitless collections of merit and wisdomEradicate most quickly the sufferings of mind and
body.

The physical sufferings of bad migrations such as hunger and thirst arise from sins;A Bodhisattva
does not sin and through his merit does not [suffer physically] in other lives.

The mental suffering of desire, fear, avarice and so forth ariseFrom obscuration; he knows them
to be baseless and so can uproot quickly [all mental suffering].

Since he is not greatly harmed by physical and mental pain,Why should he be discouraged even
though he leads the worldly beings in all worlds?

It is hard to bear suffering even for a little, what need is there to speak of doing so for
long?What can ever harm a happy man who never suffers for an instant?

If his body does not suffer, how can he suffer in his mind?Through his great compassion he feels
pain for the world and so stays in it long.

Do not then be lazy thinking Buddhahood is far away.Always strive had for these collections
to wipe out faults and attain virtues.

Realising that ignorance, desire and hatred are defects, forsake them completely.Realise that
non-desire, non-hatred and non-ignorance are virtues and so practice them with vigour.

Through desire one is reborn a hungry ghost, through hatred in a hell, through ignoranceMostly
as an animal; through stopping these one becomes a god or a human being.

To eliminate all defects and maintain the virtues are the practices of high status;To wipe out
all misconceptions through the consciousness [of reality] is the practice of definite goodness.

With respect and without stint you should construct images of Buddha, reliquaries and templesAnd
provide abundant riches, food, necessities and so forth.

Please construct from all precious substances images of Buddha with fine proportions,Well designed
and sitting on lotuses adorned with all precious substances.

You should sustain with all endeavour the excellent doctrine and the assemblyof monks, and decorate
reliquaries with gold and jewelled friezes.

Revere the reliquaries with gold and silver flowers,Diamonds, corals, pearls, emeralds, cat’s
eye gems and sapphires.

To revere the teachers of the doctrine is to do what pleases them,[Offering] goods and services
and relying firmly on the doctrine.

Listen to a teacher with homage and respect, serve and pray to him.Always respectfully revere
the other Bodhisattvas.

You should not respect, revere or do homage to others, the Forders,Because through that the
ignorant would become enamoured of the faulty.

You should make donations of the word of the King of Subduers and of the treatisesHe gave, as
well as pages and books along with their prerequisites, the pens and ink.

As a way to increase wisdom wherever there is a schoolProvide for the livelihood of teachers
and bestow estates [for their provision].

In order to root out the suffering of sentient beings, the old, young and infirm,You should
establish through your influence barbers and doctors in your kingdom.

