Intent on serving your parents, respectful to the principles of your lineage,Using your resources
well, patient generous, with kindly speech, without divisiveness and truthful,

Through performing such discipline for one lifetime you will become a king of gods;As such you
will do still more, therefore observe such practices.

Even three times a day offer three hundred cooking pots of foodDoes not match a portion of the
merit acquired in one instant of love.

Though [through love] you are not liberated you will attain the eight virtues of love,Gods and
humans will be friendly, even [non-humans] will protect you,

You will have pleasures of the mind and many [of the body], poison and weapons will not harm
you,Effortlessly will you attain your aims and be reborn in the world of Brahmā.

If you cause sentient beings to generate the aspiration to enlightenment and make it firm,Your
own aspiration will always be to enlightenment firm like [Meru] king of mountains.

Through faith you will not be without leisure, through good ethics you will have good migrations,Through
becoming familiar with emptiness you will be unattached to all phenomena.

Through not wavering you will attain awareness, and intelligence through thinking; through respectYou
will realise what the docrtines mean, through their retention you will become wise.

Through not causing the hearing and the giving of the doctrine to be obscuredYou will company
with Buddhas and will quickly attain your wish.

Through non-attachment you will learn what [the doctrines] mean, through not being miserly your
resources will increase,Through not being proud you will become chief [of those respected],
through enduring the doctrine you will attain retention.

Through giving the five essentials as well as non-fright to the frightenedNo evil will there
be to harm you, of the mighty you will be the best.

Through offering many lamps at reliquaries and elsewhereAnd oil for lamps in dark places your
divine eye will open.

Through offering bells and instruments for the worship of reliquariesAnd elsewhere drums and
trumpets, your divine ear will open.

Through not relating others’ mistakes and not talking of their defective limbs,But protecting
their minds, you will gain knowledge of the minds of others.

Through giving conveyances and shoes, through serving the feeble and throughProviding teachers
with youths you will acquire the skill to create magical emanations.

Through acting to promote the doctrine, remembering its books and their meaning,And through
stainless giving of the doctrine you will remember your continuum of lives.

Through knowing thoroughly, correctly and truly that no phenomena inherently exist,You will
attain the sixth clairvoyance that extinguishes all contaminations well.

Through cultivating the wisdom of reality which is the same [for all phenomena] and is moistened
with compassionFor the sake of liberating all sentient beings, You will become a Conqueror
with all the excellences.

Through various pure aspirations your Buddha Land will be purified,Through offering gems to
the King Of Subduers you will give out infinite light.

Therefore knowing how actions and their effects agree,For you own sake help beings always and
so help yourself.

Chapter Three: The Collections for Enlightenment

