Bestow the same favours upon the followers of the laweven if they are in no need and if they
reside in other kingdoms.

Appoint as officers entrusted with the supervision of spiritual affairs those who are diligent
in spiritual affairs, not greedy, wise, acting according to the law, never acting against
their (duty).

Appoint as you ministers those who know the right politics, who are observant of the law,affectionate,
pure, faithful, brave, of good family, rich in moral virtues, grateful.

Appoint as ministers of war just those who are nobleminded, liberal, brave,affectionate, wealthy,
steady, always attentive, observant of law.

Appoint as ministers of finance those whose habitats are in agreement with the law, who are
pure, clever,able in business, expert in learning, of perfect conduct, impartial, kind, advanced
in age.

Every month hear from them the report of the expenditure and of the income; and, after having
heard it, you must say yourselfwhatever must be done as regards the various offices, viz.
that of the supervision of spiritual affairs and the others.

If your kingdom is ruled by you not on account of worldly renown nor of worldly pleasures but
with the purpose of protecting the law,then it will be extremely fruitful; otherwise it
will be conducive to misfortune.

Generally, O king, in this world one is the prey of the others;still listen to the method by
which you may have two things (apparently irreconcilable), viz. kingdom and law.

You must always collect many ministers inspecting various businesses, possessing the experience
of old men,born in high families, who know the rules of government and are afraid of committing
sin.

Even if they order according to justice, punishment, imprisonment, and beating (of culprits),be
yourself always moved to compassion and disposed to kindness.

With your compassion, O king, you must always bend to righteousness the mind of all living beings,
even of those who have commited terrible sins.

Special compassion indeed one must feel for those cruel persons who have committed terrible
sins;in fact these miserable men are the proper object for the compassion of noble-minded
men.

Every day or every five days set free prisoners who are becoming weak [by the imprisonment];set
free all the others also according to the proper course; let nobody remain in prison.

If the thought does not come to your mind to set somebody free, this means that you have not
yet a perfect control of your feelings as regards that man.But from this lack of control
perpetual accumulation of sin is derived.

Up to the time of their discharge let them enjoy a pleasant imprisonmentand the comfort of barbers,
baths, drinks, food, medicines, and garments.

You must punish them from compassion and from a desire to turn them into worthy persons, as
you do as regards unworthy sons;but you must not be moved by hatred or by desire of material
welfare.

After having pondered (the proper means) and having well known the case,you must expel from
the country bad people and murderers, without killing or injuring them.

Uninfluenced [by others] you must explore your state with the eyes of the spies;always attentive
and thoughtful you must do whatever business is in accordance with the law.

Always honour with generous gifts, respect and homage those who take their resort to virtue,and
as is proper, others also, but according to their merits.

The king may be compared to a tree whose abundant flowers are the respect bestowed upon the
worthy, whose great gruits are his liberality,whose shadow is his forbearance; the subjects
will take shelter in his kingdom like birds in such a tree.

