Even if a king follows a path contrary to religion and to reason he is nevetheless praised by
his subjects (on account of fear);he, therefore, hardly knows what is appropriate or not.

It would be very difficult to say to anybody else what is appropriate, when it is unpleasant;how
much more will that be to an emperor as you are, since I am speaking, a simple monk as
I am?

But on account of your love and because I feel compassion for the living beings,I alone will
say to you what befits you, though it will be extremely unpleasant.

(The master), out of his compassion, must say at the proper moment to his disciple what befits
him, is true, mild, and full of significance.So said the Blessed one. You are now instructed
according to this principle.

If a man persists in being mild and truthful when he is praised, he will always accept that
which is worth hearing;even so those who want to wash themselves choose water possessing good
properties.

When I say these words to you knowing that they are profitable in this life and in other eixstences,put
them into practice; they will prove useful to yourself and to the world.

You have got your wealth since you were liberal in former existences; but if, being ungrateful
and greedy,you are not now also liberal towards those who beg some help from you, you will
never get this wealth any more.

A servant, if he is not paid, does not carry in this world any provision on the way,but a poor
beggar without being paid carries for the other life baggage a hundred times heavier.

Be always noble-minded and delighting in noble deeds,because from a noble deed every kind of
noble fruits are derived.

Make your temple the prosperous and renowned abode of the Three Jewels, unhurt even in thought
by mean kings.

It is better not to build that temple which does not cause horripilation to neighbouring kings,since
it is not a glory even when one is dead.

With the example of your extreme generosity let the admiration and the endeavours of the generous
onesgrow and kill the endeavours of the dull-witted ones, even at the const of all your
possessions.

Even against your will you must give up everything and pass into another existence.But whatever
has been employed for the law will go ahead.

The property of a previous king has fallen into the hands of the king (his predecessor);of what
use can it then be to the religion, happiness and glory of his predecessor?

From the enjoyment of your wealth you get only happiness in this life, but from the gift of
that wealth you will get happiness in a future existence.Since whatever has not been either
given or enjoyed is lost, sorrow only is derived from that wealth; how can that produce
happiness?

When you are on the very point of death you are unable to give away; you are, in fact, then
no longer master of your own willon account of your ministers becoming disaffected towards
the king whose departure is impending and eager to do what pleases the new prince.

While, therefore, you enjoy good health, even at the cost of all your wealth, quickly build
a temple. You are in fact amidst the very conditions from which death comes, like a lamp put
where a strong wind blows.

Let all other religious duties, such as processions, etc.,established by former kings, continue
as they are.

Let them be attended by those who harm nobody, whose conduct is pure, who keep their vows,please
their guests, are patient towards everybody, lovers of peace, and always energetic.

Let blind, sick, crippled, afflicted, helpless, beggarsequally get food and drink without offence.

