[In the same way the other] constituents like consciousness, sensation, ideas, and forces separately
taken are in se completely unreal:therefore from the standpoint of the absolute truth
there is only unreality.

Just as there is an assumption of pleasure, when in fact there is removal of pain,even so the
assumption of pain is derived from obstruction of pleasure.

By [meditation of the principle that] everything is devoid of any essence one puts an end to
the thirst after association with pleasureand the thirst after dissociation from pain; for
those who see (such a truth) there is liberation thence.

If you ask who can see that, we reply that from the standpoint of conventional truth it is the
mind which sees that (but not from the absolute standpoint);in fact (the function of) mind
is not possible without mental contents nor alont with these, since it will serve no purpose.

When one, perceiving that there is nothing which one can depend upon, considers this world according
to its real nature, viz. as unreal,then, having extinguished the sources of attachment,
one enters into Nirvāṇa, just as fire which is extinguished when the conbustible matter
comes to an end.

The Bodhisattva also has this vision and therefore he is certain to attain to the perfect illumination;but
it is only out of compassion that he passes from one existence to another,
before entering the gate of the supreme illumination.

The Tathāgatas have expounded in the Great Vehicle the accumulation (of merit and knowledge)
of the Bodhisattvas:only those who are bewildered by foolishness or hatred can find fault
with it.

A man abusing the Great Vehicle is one who does not distinguish between merits and sins,or one
who takes merits to be defects or one who hates merits.

An abuser of Mahāyāna is said to be one who knows that sins are of harm to othersand merits
benefit others and still abuses Mahāyāna.

He who hates the Great Vehicle, which is a mine of merits,in so far as it rejoices in benefiting
others without any consideration for personal interest, is thereby burnt (by the fire
of hell).

Even a man possessing faith (in the law) may hate the merits (of the Great Vehicle) on account
of some principle badly understood; even so somebody else being addicted to anger.But (the
scripture) says: “Even a man possessing faith may be burnt (by the fire of hell)”; How
much greater will the danger be for a man inclined to hatred?

The doctors say that a poison can be the antidote of another poison;even so there is no contradiction
when we state that man must dispel what is harmful to him even at the cost of his
own pain.

Tradition says that mind goes in front of the elements of existence and mind is the best among
them.If one, being only interested in what is salutary, does what is salutary, even at
the cost of personal pain, how can that prove unprofitable to him?

One must do that which will, in the future, be salutary to oneself and to others even if it
is (at present) painful;how much more, then, must he do that which is pleasant and equally
salutary to the doer and to others? this is the eternal law.

If by giving up a bit of pleasure one may get afterwards a large joy,a brave man should give
up that bit of pleasure, having in his mind the large joy to be gained in the future.

If one is unable to stand even that, then doctores, etc.,prescribing bitter medicaments would
be ruined. But this principle cannot be applied.

What seems unsalutary is considered sometimes by the experts to be salutary;a general rule and
the exception are praised in all philosophical systems.

How could a man in full possession of his mental faculties abuse the Great Vehiclewhere it is
stated that all results are preceded by compassion and purified by wisdom.

Ignorant men, enemies of themselves as well as of others, on account of their bewildermentabuse
to-day this Great Vehicle, being troubled by its extreme excellence and its extreme depth.

This Great Vehicle is composed of many virtues such as those of liberality, morality, patience,
energy, meditation, wisdom, compassion;how is it therefore possible that there is in it
any wrong utterance?

