By liberality and morality one realizes the profit of others; by patience and energy one’s own
profit;meditation and wisdom are conducive to liberation. This is the summary of the contents
of the Great Vehicle.

The teaching of Buddha is condensed in precepts which are salutary to others as well as to oneself
and are conducive to liberation.They are included in the six perfections; therefore
this (Great Vehicle) is indeed the utterance of the Buddha.

That Great Vehicle, in which the Buddhas have shown the great path leading to illumination and
consisting in acquisition of moral merits and wisdom,is not seen (by common people) only
on account of their ignorance.

In so far as he is possessed of inconceivable attributes, the Victorious One is said, in the
Great Vehicle,to be endowed with inconceivable attributes like the ether (whose attributes
transcend mind); therefore you must allow this majesty of the Buddha.

Even as regards moral rules only, he remained a field inaccessible to the noble Śāradvatīputra;how
can you not allow that the majesty of Buddha is inconceivable.

According to the Great Vehicle unsubstantiality is considered as absence of birth, but for the
other systems void is the destruction of things;destruction as well as non-birth can in
gact be considered identical.

How could, then, the other teachings of Mahāyāna be not acceptable to the wise,since they have
realized according to reason the principle of unsubstantiality and the majesty of the Buddhas?

It is very difficult to know what the Buddhas have said in their metaphorical utterances,and
therefore having recourse to impartiality you must protect yourself (against the different
and contradictory wordings of the law as expounded) in the one Vehicle or in the three Vehicles.

Impartiality is not cause of demerit; but (if you are partial as regards some principle and
therefore) you hate (another), this is a cause of sin; how can that be propitious?Therefore
those who seek their own welfare must not feel any hatred against the Great Vehicle.

In the Vehicle of the Auditors there is no mention of the vow of the Bodhisattva nor of his
virtue of devolving upon others the fruits of his career.How is it, then, possible that one
could become a Bodhisattva by following the precepts of that school?

The Buddhas did not state in that Vehicle the blessings necessary in order to obtain the illumination
of the Bodhisattva.Who else superior to the Victorious Ones can be an authority
on this matter?

From a path which is similar to that of the Auditors and implies in addition the blessings,the
sense of the noble truths and the coefficients of illumination, how can a superior fruit
of Buddhahood be derived?

In the sūtras there is no word designed to enjoin the career towards illumination,but this is
said in the Great Vehicle, and therefore it should be accepted by the wise.

Just as a master of grammar teaches even the alphabet to disciples,even so the Buddha teaches
the law as it may be accessible to those to be converted.

The Buddha in fact preached to some the law so that they could be freed from sin,to others so
that they could accomplish meritorious deeds, to others the law based on a duality.

To some others he preached the law beyond duality, deep, terrifying those who are afraid (of
such principles);to others again the law consisting in the two tenets of compassion and unsubstantiality,
viz. the two means leading to illumination.

Therefore the good ones must destroy any feeling of opposition against the Great Vehicleand
find their supreme spiritual peace in it if they want to attain to perfect illumination.

By having faith in the Great Vehicle and by following the precepts enjoined in itone attains
to the supreme illumination and midway to all happiness.

Liberality, morality, patience, truthfulness, are said to be the religion chiefly for the householders;the
essence of this (religion) is compassion; it must be taken hold of with great
energy.

If you think that to rule a kingdom according to religion is difficult since world (and religion)
are opposite,then, if you strive after glory in religion success will be easy.

Chapter Four: Royal Policy

