If a king possessing the virtues of liberality and morality is also full of majesty,he pleases
his subjects like a sweetmeat of sugar, hardened by cardamon and pepper.

Following this policy, you will get a kingdom not ruled by the “policy of the fish”;acting in
this way there will be neither unrule nor injustice, but law only.

You did not carry with you this kingdom from the other world, nor will you carry it thither
(after death).It has been obtained through law, and therefore, if you want to get it (in another
life), you must not do anything against the law.

You must endeavour, O king, with all your energy not to gain at the price of that capitalwhich
is the kingdom those goods of sorrow which are wont to come one after the other.

But rather with all you energy you must endeavour, O king, so that at the price of that capitalwhich
is your kingdom you may enjoy a long series of royal goods.

Even if one obtains as universal emperor supremacy over the world with its four continents,one
can only experience two kinds of joy, one physical and the other mental.

Bodily pleasure is a pleasant sensation which merely consists in the removal of pain;the mental
one consists in mere ideas, and is produced only by imagination.

In this world any kind of pleasure is either a mere removal of pain or a mere imagination;it
is therefore in fact unreal.

The four continents (as in the case of the universal emperor), the territory, the town, the
habitation,the place of residence, sits, cloths, beds, food, drinking, elephants, horses,
women are enjoyed severally.

Whenever and wherever our mind is fixed [upon something], from that and then only pleasure is
derived.But all other things have in fact no scope in so far as that moment we do not pay
attention to them.

When one, perceiving the five objects of sense-perception with the five senses, such as the
eye, etc., does not work with the imagination,then, for this reason, one does not feel any
pleasure in them.

When we know a certain object with a certain sense, then, we do not know other objects with
the other senses,since at that time the other [objects] are not object [of perception, not
being in relation with the senses].

The mind perceiving the form of an object which has already been perceived by the senses and
(is therefore) past,working with the imagination, thinks it to be a pleasure.

If, in this world, one sense knows only one object, then, without its object of perception,that
sense would have no scope and the object also will have no scope without the sense which
perceives it [in so far as both are reciprocally conditioned].

The birth of a son is conditioned by the mother and the father;even so it is stated that the
production of consciousness is conditioned by a sense, e.g. the eye and its object, viz.
the object visible.

Objects along with their (correspondent) sensory moments, either past or future, are of no purpose
[as regards the production of consciousness];even so the present ones because they
cannot be dissociated from the two aforesaid moments.

The eye wrongly perceives as a wheel a turning firebrand:even so all senses [wrongly] perceive
the various objects as being present.

The organs of senses as well as the objects of senses are said to be composed of the five material
elements;but since each element is in se unreal, even those senses and those objects
are in fact unreal.

If we conceive the material elements as being separate the consequence woult be that fire can
burn without any fuel;if, on the other hand, they are combined together, it is impossible
to speak of their characteristics: the same decision must also be applied to the other elements.

In this way, since the material elements are in either case (viz. either separately taken or
combined) unreal, their combination is (also) unreal;since their combination is unreal, material
forms are therefore unreal.

