And the five claircoyances throughout their continuum of lives. May I ever in all ways bring
help and happiness to all sentient beings.

May I always without harm simultaneously stopAll beings in all worlds who wish to commit sins.

May I always be an object of enjoyment for all sentient beings according to their wishAnd without
interference as are the earth, water, fire, wind, medicine and forests.

May I be as dear to sentient beings as their own life and may they be very dear to me,May their
sins fructify for me and all my virtues for them.

As long as any sentient being anywhere has not been liberated,May I remain [in the world] for
his sake even though I have attained enlightenment.

If the merit of this prayer had form, it would never fitInto worlds as numerous as sand grains
in the Ganges.

The Blessed One said so, and the reasoning is this:[The limitlessness of the merit of] wishing
to help limitless realms of sentient beings is like [the limitlessness of those beings].

These practices which I have explained briefly to youShould always be as dear to you as your
body.

He who feels a dearness for the practices has in fact a dearness for his body;If dearness [for
the body] helps it, the practices will do just that.

Therefore, pay heed to the practices as you do yourself, pay heed to achievement as you do to
the practices,Pay heed to wisdom as you do to achievement, pay heed to a wise man as you
do to wisdom.

He who has qualms that [reliance] on one who has purity, love, intelligence and helpfulAppropriate
speech would be bad for himself, causes his own interests to be destroyed.

The qualifications of spiritual guides should be known in brief by you;If you are taught by
those who know contentment, have compassion, ethics

And the wisdom which can drive out your afflictions, you should know [how to rely on] and respect
them.You will attain the supreme achievement by following this excellent system:

Speak the truth, speak gently to sentient beings, say what is by nature pleasant,What is [beneficial],
most difficult to find; speak to a plan, not defaming; speak independently and
well.

Be well-disciplined, contained, generous, brilliantly attentive, of peaceful mind,Not exciteable,
nor deceitful, not procrastinating, but steadfast.

Be certain like the moon [when it is] full and radiant like the sun in autumn,Be deep like the
ocean and firm like Mount Meru.

Freed from all defects, adorned with all the virtues, becomethe sustenance of all sentient beings
and be omniscient.

These doctrines were not taught merely to help kings,But with the wish in any way to help other
sentient beings.

O King, for you it would be right each day to think of this adviceSo that you and others may
achieve complete and perfect enlightenment.

For the sake of enlightenment the diligent should always apply themselves to ethics, patience,
non-jealousy and non-miserliness;Always respect a superior teacher and help altruistically
without hope [of reward] those bereft of wealth, always remain with superior people, leaving
the non-superior and maintaining thoroughly the doctrine.

Chapter Five: The Bodhisattva Deeds

Here ends the Precious Garland of Advice for the King by the great teacher, the Superior, Nāgārjuna.
It was [first] translated by the Indian Abbot Vidyākāraprabhā and the Tibetan translator
monk Pel-tsek (dPal-brtsegs). Consulting three Sanskrit editions, the Indian abbot
Śīkanakavarma and the Tibetan monk Pa-tsap-nyi-ma-drak (Pa-tshab-ñi-ma-grags) corrected mistranslations
and other points which did not accord with the particular thought of the Superior
[Nāgārjuna] and his ‘son’ [Āryadeva]. It was printed at the great publishing house
below [the Potala in Lhasa].

