Thus those ten stages are renowned as the ten of Bodhisattvas.The stage of Buddhahood is different,
Being in all ways inconceivable,

Its boundless extent is merely said to encompass the ten powers;Each of his powers is immeasurable
too like [the limitless number] of all migrators.

The limitlessness of a Buddha’s [qualities] is said to be likeThat of space, earth, water, fire
and wind in all directions.

If the causes are [reduced] to a mere [measure] and not seen to be limitless,One will not believe
the limitlessness [of the qualities] of the Buddhas.

Therefore in the presence of an image or reliquary or something elseSay these twenty stanzas
three times every day:

Going for refuge with all forms of respect to the Buddhas, excelent Doctrine,Supreme Community
and Bodhisattvas, I bow down to all that is worthy of honour.

From all sins I will turn away and thoroughly maintain all virtues,I will admire all the merits
of all embodied beings.

With bowed head and clasped hands I petition the perfect BuddhasTo turn the wheel of doctrine
and remain as long as beings transmigrate.

Through the merit of having done all this and through the merit that I have done and that I
will doMay all sentient beings aspire to the highest enlightenment.

May all sentient beings have all the stainless powers, freedom from all conditions of non-leisureFreedom
of action and good livelihood.

May all embodied beings have jewels in their hands and mayAll the limitless necessities of life
remain unconsumed as long as there is cyclic existence.

May all beings always be [born] as superior humans,May all embodied beings have wisdom and the
support of ethics.

May embodied beings have good complexion, good physique, great beauty, a pleasant appearance,Freedom
from disease, power and long life.

May all be skilled in the means [to extinguish suffering], and have liberation from it,Absorption
in the Three Jewels, and the great wealth of Buddha’s doctrine.

May they be adorned with love, compassion, joy, even-mindedness [devoid of] the afflictions,Giving,
ethics, patience, effort, concentration and wisdom.

May they have the brilliant major and minor marks [of a Buddha] from having finally completed
the two collections [of merit and wisdom]And may they cross without interruption the ten
inconceivable stages.

May I also be adorned completely with those and all other good qualities,Be freed from all defects
and possess superior love for all sentient beings.

May I perfect all the virtues for which all embodied beings hopeAnd may I always relieve the
sufferings of all sentient beings.

May those beings in all worlds who are distressed through fearBecome entirely fearless through
merely hearing my name.

Through seeing or thinking of me or only hearing my name may beings attain great joy,Naturalness
free from error, definiteness toward complete enlightenment,

