The first of these is the Very Joyous since the Bodhisattva is rejoicing.He forsakes the three
entwinements and is born into the lineage of the Tathāgatas.

Through the maturation of these qualities the perfection of giving becomes supreme,He vibrates
a hundred worlds and becomes a great lord of the world.

The second is called the Stainless because the ten [virtuous] actionsOf body, speech and mind
are stainless and he naturally abides in them.

Through the maturation of these qualities the perfection of ethics becomes supreme,He becomes
a Universal Monarch helping beings, master of teh glorious [four continents] and of the
seven precious substances.

The third stage is called the Shining because the pacifying light of wisdom arises.The concentrations
and clairvoyances are generated, while desire and hatred are extinguished completely.

Through the maturation of these qualities he practices supremely the deeds of patienceAnd putting
an end to desire completely becomes a great wise king of the gods.

The fourth is called the Radiant because the light of true wisdom arisesIn which he cultivates
supremely the auxiliaries of enlightenment.

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a king of the gods in [the heaven] Without
Combat,He is skilled in quelling the arising of the view that the transitory collection
[is a real self].

The fifth is called the Extremely Difficult to Overcome since all evil ones find it extremely
hard to conquer him;He becomes skilled in knowing the subtle meanings of the noble truths
and so forth.

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a king of the gods abiding in the Joyous
Heaven,He overcomes the sources of afflictions and the views of all Forders.

The sixth is called the approaching because he is approaching the qualities of a Buddha;Through
familiarity with calm abiding and special insight he attains cessation and is thus advanced
[in wisdom].

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a king of the gods [in the heaven] of Liking
Emanation.Hearers cannot surpass him, he pacifies those with the pride of superiority.

The seventh is the Gone Afar because the number [of his qualities] has increased,Moment by moment
he can enter the equipoise of cessation.

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a master of the gods [in the heaven] of
Control of Others’ Emanations,He becomes a great leader of teachers for he knows direct realisation
of the [four] noble truths.

The eighth is the Immovable, the youthful stage, through non-conceptuality he is immobableAnd
the spheres of his body, speech and mind’s activities are inconceivable.

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a Brahmā, master of a thousand worlds,Foe
Destroyer and Solitary Realisers and so forth cannot surpass him in establishing the meaning
[of the doctrines].

The ninth stage is called Good Intelligence,Like a regent he has attained correct individual
realisation and therefore has good intelligence.

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a Brahmā who is master of a million worlds,Foe
Destroyers and so forth cannot surpass him in responding to questions in the thoughts
of sentient beings.

The tenth is the Cloud of Doctrine because the rain of excellent doctrine falls,The Bodhisattva
is consecrated with light by the Buddhas.

Through the maturation of these qualities he becomes a master of the gods of Pure Abode,He is
a supreme great lord, master of the sphere of infinite wisdom.

