Irreligious lust is the libidinous oraise of women who [in fact] are to be abandoned.Hypocrisy
is [to pretend] that one possesses good qualities which one lacks, while desiring sins.

Great desire is extreme greed gone beyond the fortune of knowing satisfaction,Desire for gain
is wanting to be known always as having superior qualities.

Non-endurance is an inability to bear injury and suffering; improprietyIs not to respect the
activities of a spiritual guide or teacher.

Not heeding advice is not respecting counsel from those of similar practice.Intention to meet
with relatives is loving attachment to one’s kindred.

Attachment to objects is to relate their qualities in order to acquire them.Fancying immortality
is to be unaffected by concern over death.

Intention endowed with making [one’s qualities] understoodIs the thought that due to the appearance
of knowledge and wealth others will take one as a guide.

Intention endowed with desire is a wish to help others motivated by desire.To be affected with
harmful intent implies that one wishes to harm others.

Dislike is a mind that is unsteady, desiring union is a dirtied mind,Indifference is a body
without effort, a laziness of lassitude.

Being affected is the influence on body and colour by afflictions,Not wishing for food is explained
as discomfort due to gorging.

A very weak mind is taught as timidity and fear,Longing for desires is to desire and seek after
the five attributes.

Harmful intent toward others arises from nine causes: having senseless qualmsAbout oneself,
one’s friends and foes in the past, present and future.

Sluggishness is non-activity due to a heavy mind and body,Sleep is slumber, excitement is a
lack of physical and mental peace.

Contrition is repentance for bad deeds which arises afterwards from grief,Doubt is to be of
two minds about the truths, the Three Jewels and so forth.

[Householder] Bodhisattvas abandon the above, while those who keep a [monk’s] vows strictly
abandon more.Freed from these defects the virtues are easily observed.

Briefly the virtues observed by Bodhisattvas areGiving, ethics, patience, effort, concentration,
wisdom, compassion and so forth.

Giving is to give away completely all one’s wealth, ethics is to help others,Patience is to
forsake anger, effort, to delight in virtues;

Concentration is unafflicted one-pointedness, wisdom is ascertainment of the meaning of the
truths,Compassion is a mind that savours only mercy and love for all sentient beings.

From giving there arises wealth, from ethics happiness, from patience a good appearance, from
[effort in] virtueBrilliance, from concentration peace, from wisdom liberation, from compassion
all aims are achieved.

From the simultaneous perfection of all those seven [virtues] is attainedThe sphere of inconceivable
wisdom the protectorship of the world.

Just as the eight levels of Hearers are explained in their vehicle,So are the ten Bodhisattva
stages in the Mahāyāna.

