Having become a monk you should train first with energy [in ethics],then take up the discipline
of individual emancipation, hear [the scriptures recited] frequently, and ascertain their
meaning.

Then, knowing the small faults, forsake the sources to be forsaken;With effort you should realise
fully the fifty-seven faults.

Anger is disturbance of mind, enmity discturbs it further,Concealment is a hiding of faults,
resentment a clinging to faulty ways.

Dishonesty is extreme deception, dissimulation, crookedness of mind,Jealously is to be hurt
by the good qualities of others; miserliness is fear of giving.

To be unembarrassed and unashamed is insensibility to oneself and others,Inflatedness leads
to disrespect, while evil effort is a pollution from anger.

Arrogance is haughtiness, non-conscientiousness is to neglectVirtues, pride has seven forms
each of which I will explain.

Boasting that one is lower than then lowly, or equal with the equal, or greater thanor equal
to the lowly is called the pride of selfhood.

Boasting that one is equal to those who by some quality are better than oneselfis the pride
of being superior. Thinking that one is higher than the extremely high,

Who fancy themselves to be superior, is pride greater than pride;Like an abcess in a tumour
it is very vicious.

Conceiving an ‘I’ through ignorance in the five empty [aggregates]Which are called the appropriation
is said to be the pride of thinking ‘I’.

Thinking one has won fruits not het attained is pride of conceit.Praising oneself for faulty
deeds is known by the wise as wrongful pride.

Deriding oneself, thinking ‘I am senseless,’ is calledThe pride of lowliness. Such briefly are
the seven prides.

Hypocrisy is to control the senses for the sake of goods and respect,Flattery is to speak pleasant
phrases for the sake of goods and respect.

Indirect acquisition is to praise the wealth of others so as to win it,Artful acquisition is
to deride others in order to acquire their goods.

Desiring to add profit to profit is to praise previous acquitions,Reciting faults is to repeat
the mistakes made by others.

Non-collectedness is selfish excitement that is inconsiderate of others,Clinging is the attachment
of the lazy to their bad possessions.

Making differences is discrimination obscured through desire, hatred or confusion,Not looking
into the mind is explained as not applying it to anything.

One who through laziness loses respect and reverence for those doing practices that are similarIs
a spiritual guide who follows not the ways of the Blessed One; he is regarded as bad.

Attachment is a small entanglement arising from desire,When strong it is a great entanglement
arising from desire.

Fondness is an attitude of clinging to one’s own property,Unsuitable fondness is attachment
to the property of others.

